link: https://finance.yahoo.com/news/got-5-000-might-want-092300826.html

source: finance.yahoo.com

title: Got $5,000? You Might Want to Buy These 3 Unstoppable Stocks

summary: 

publishDate: 2024-12-12T09:23:00.000Z

content: A $5,000 investment can grow significantly when you put that money into an unstoppable stock and hang on to it for the long term. It's a strategy that can make a lot of sense for long-term investors, as finding a solid company to invest in and simply remaining patient can result in your money doubling or tripling in value or perhaps even growing to more than that.

An unstoppable stock is one that has a promising trajectory ahead where there's little doubt about its future growth opportunities. This is the type of investment where the company is also equipped with strong resources and fundamentals, allowing it to take advantage of opportunities that may arise in the future.

Three unstoppable stocks that can be safe options for investors to build their portfolios around right now include Walmart (NYSE: WMT), Apple (NASDAQ: AAPL), and Costco Wholesale (NASDAQ: COST).

1. Walmart

Big-box retailer Walmart has been a top name in both retail and e-commerce for years. However, the business is still flush with growth opportunities. Although it has generated more than $665 billion in revenue over the trailing 12 months, Walmart has over 10,500 stores and clubs and is in just 19 countries throughout the world -- there's plenty of room for more global expansion in the future.

Another big opportunity for the business is in e-commerce, where Walmart has been taking on Amazon in recent years. With the launch of its Walmart+ subscription in 2020, which offers many benefits and unique savings similar to Amazon's Prime, this is an area that can pave the way for more growth for Walmart in the years to come. As of the end of this year, eMarketer projects that there will be 32 million Walmart+ subscribers, which is still far below the more than 180 million Amazon Prime subscribers in the U.S.

Walmart has a lot of room to grow even though it is already a massive business. At around 40 times earnings, investors are paying a bit of a premium to own the stock, but if you plan to hang on for several years, it can still be an excellent investment to put in your portfolio and forget about.

2. Apple

Another fantastic business to invest in for years and maybe even decades is Apple. The company has built up a vast ecosystem of products and services over the years, which makes a customer acquisition particularly valuable for Apple since not only may they upgrade an iPhone or buy an iPad, but there are also many services such as music, news, games, and others that consumers can subscribe to.

Globally, there are around 1.5 billion active iPhone users. Even if Apple doesn't drastically grow this number in the future, the potential it has to grow its services and upsell its loyal fanbase onto new products and services can unlock some tremendous growth opportunities for the company in the years to come. Apple Intelligence, for example, is still in its early stages, and it can provide consumers with artificial intelligence (AI) features that can help make their lives easier. AI has enabled many businesses to enhance their products and services, and Apple may still get a significant boost from that down the road.

Story Continues

language: en

sentiment: neutral

confidence: 0.9999760389328003

