link: https://finance.yahoo.com/news/prediction-apples-next-big-move-085000273.html

source: finance.yahoo.com

title: Prediction: This Will Be Apple's Next Big Move

summary: 

publishDate: 2024-10-25T08:50:00.000Z

content: Apple (NASDAQ: AAPL) brought about a revolution in the smartphone market in 2007 when it launched its first-ever iPhone, changing the fortunes of established smartphone companies such as Nokia and BlackBerry (known as Research in Motion at that time).

It's worth noting that Apple sold just 1.4 million iPhones in 2007. For comparison, the popular Nokia 3310 sold 7.4 million units in the fourth quarter of that year alone. The Nokia device was seven years old at that time, and it was simply a feature phone. However, Apple changed the game by infusing the internet, entertainment, and a touchscreen into the same device.

Apple has come a long way since then. It was the top seller of smartphones in 2023, according to IDC. The company shipped 234.6 million iPhones last year and controlled 20.1% of the market. It was slightly ahead of Samsung, which had a 19.4% share of the smartphone space last year. The two companies have long been involved in a fierce duel for smartphone supremacy and are now looking at artificial intelligence (AI) to unlock the next growth frontier in this space.

Samsung has been ahead of Apple in the generative AI smartphone market so far. However, Apple made its AI move in June this year when it introduced Apple Intelligence, a suite of generative AI features. Let's take a closer look at Apple Intelligence and see why the company could use this feature to boost its growth.

The monetization of Apple Intelligence

Apple says its generative AI platform will unlock "new ways for users to enhance their writing and communicate more effectively." From enabling users to proofread, rewrite, and summarize text to recording, transcribing, and summarizing audio to a more intelligent Siri, there are a bunch of tools that Apple Intelligence users will get access to.

Apple hasn't announced whether it will charge a fee for its generative AI features. However, there is a strong likelihood of the company heading in that direction. That's because Apple isn't just a hardware company. The tech giant has a flourishing services business that has generated $71 billion in revenue in the first nine months of fiscal 2024, accounting for nearly a quarter of its top line.

The important thing here is that the services business has a much fatter margin profile than Apple's product business. Apple's services business reported a 74% gross margin in the fiscal third quarter, compared to the product segment's gross margin of 35%. The services business currently has a range of offerings that include cloud storage, music, TV, gaming, fitness, and news.

Story Continues

language: en

sentiment: neutral

confidence: 0.8903312683105469

