link: https://finance.yahoo.com/news/live/stock-market-today-nasdaq-tops-20000-for-first-time-as-big-tech-surge-leads-stocks-higher-173206052.html

source: finance.yahoo.com

title: Stock market today: Nasdaq tops 20,000 for first time as Big Tech surge leads stocks higher

summary: 

publishDate: 2024-12-11T17:32:06.000Z

content: US stocks rallied on Wednesday, led by Big Tech, as investors digested another month of sticky inflation data that met economists' expectations and likely pointed to a Federal Reserve interest rate cut next week.

The tech-heavy Nasdaq Composite (^IXIC) jumped about 1.7% amid a feverish rally in the "Magnificent Seven" tech stocks. Google parent Alphabet's (GOOG, GOOGL) shares extended gains to hit a record high, up as much as 4.6%. Meanwhile Tesla (TSLA), Meta (META), Amazon (AMZN) and Apple (AAPL) all also surged to record highs.

The S&P 500 (^GSPC) rose around 0.8%, while the Dow Jones Industrial Average (^DJI) hugged the after initially opening the day higher.

Meanwhile, bitcoin (BTC-USD) prices soared to trade above $100,600 a token in afternoon trade.

Fresh inflation data out on Wednesday showed consumer prices rose as forecast in November, keeping the Federal Reserve on track to lower interest rates again in December.

The latest data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics showed that the Consumer Price Index (CPI) increased 2.7% over the prior year in November, a slight uptick from October's 2.6% annual gain in prices. The yearly increase matched economist expectations.

On a "core" basis, which strips out the more volatile costs of food and gas, prices in November climbed 0.3% over the prior month, matching October, and posted an annual rate of 3.3% for the fourth consecutive month.

• USD (^DJI) View Quote Details

Earlier on Wednesday, a report that China is considering devaluing its currency sent ripples through global stock markets and boosted the dollar (DX=F). The potential move is seen as a response to higher tariffs promised by President-elect Donald Trump, as a weaker yuan (CNHUSD=X) could make Chinese exports cheaper.

On the corporate front, Macy's (M) stock somewhat recovered from double-digit losses earlier in the session after the department store chain lowered its full-year profit guidance. The retailer released its third-quarter results after delaying the report while it investigated an employee hiding up to $154 million in expenses.

LIVE

8 updates

language: en

sentiment: positive

confidence: 0.9999995231628418

