link: https://finance.yahoo.com/news/warren-buffett-sold-133-billion-103700973.html

source: finance.yahoo.com

title: Warren Buffett Has Sold $133 Billion Worth of Stock in 2024 So Far, but This Small $550 Million Purchase Is Sending a Big Message to Investors

summary: 

publishDate: 2024-12-07T10:37:00.000Z

content: Warren Buffett has attracted a lot of attention this year thanks to some very big high-profile stock sales. The Oracle of Omaha has sold a total of $133 billion worth of equities from Berkshire Hathaway's portfolio through the first nine months of 2024.

Some of the biggest sales include Apple (NASDAQ: AAPL), of which he sold more than two-thirds of Berkshire's stake, and Bank of America (NYSE: BAC). Despite the sales, Berkshire still holds $300 billion in stock, but only a handful of companies are safe from getting a trim these days, it seems.

Are You Missing The Morning Scoop? Breakfast News delivers it all in a quick, Foolish, and free daily newsletter. Sign Up For Free »

Many see Buffett's massive stock sales as a big warning for investors that the stock market is overpriced and investors should reduce their exposure to equities. Indeed, Buffett's Apple and Bank of America sales suggest he thinks both stocks currently trade near or above their intrinsic values. Investors will be hard-pressed to earn solid returns buying stocks above their actual value, so it may be smart to trim positions like Apple or Bank of America.

But Buffett doesn't think every stock is overpriced right now. It's just that he faces a unique challenge as someone in charge of managing $600 billion in assets when you include Berkshire's cash and Treasury bill positions. His stock purchases this year tell the whole story.

Image source: The Motley Fool.

This small $550 million purchase speaks volumes

Berkshire's biggest equity purchase during the third quarter was about $550 million worth of Domino's Pizza (NYSE: DPZ). Yes, it pales in comparison to the $36 billion Buffett and his team sold in other stocks during the quarter, and the purchase accounts for just 0.2% of the entire equity portfolio. But the purchase accounts for 3.7% of the entire pizza purveyor.

Domino's may be a great stock to buy. Its fortressing strategy has enabled it to grow its market share around the world. It's showing strong profitability at the store level even as it cannibalizes itself by opening new locations near existing ones. It's producing strong operating margin expansion and is returning capital to shareholders. These are all signs of a great company.

Buffett's challenge is that Domino's market cap is currently less than $16 billion as of this writing. He could buy 20 companies the size of Domino's Pizza with Berkshire's cash pile if the market would let him.

He has run into similar problems with other stocks he found attractive in 2024: Ulta Beauty has a market cap of about $17 billion, Sirius XM has a market cap of about $9 billion, Pool Corp has a market cap around $14 billion, and Heico has a market cap of $32 billion. The market constrains how much of those stocks Buffett can actually buy.

Story Continues

language: en

sentiment: neutral

confidence: 0.8846017718315125

