link: https://finance.yahoo.com/news/watch-apple-stock-price-levels-170445821.html

source: finance.yahoo.com

title: Watch These Apple Stock Price Levels as $4T Market Cap Remains in Striking Distance

summary: 

publishDate: 2024-12-30T17:04:45.000Z

content: Source: TradingView.com





Key Takeaways

Apple shares moved lower Monday morning, tracking a broader decline for U.S. stocks, but the company remains in striking distance of becoming the first ever to reach a $4 trillion market capitalization.

A bearish evening star pattern has formed over the past three trading sessions, indicating a potential reversal in the stock.

Investors should watch key support levels on Apple's chart around $237 and $218, while also monitoring a chart-based bullish price target near $278.







Apple (AAPL) shares moved lower Monday morning, tracking a broader decline for U.S. stocks, but the company remains in striking distance of becoming the first ever to reach a $4 trillion market capitalization.

Last Thursday, the company set a fresh record high just above $260 after Wedbush analysts led by Apple bull Dan Ives said that artificial intelligence (AI) demand sets the tech giant up for a “golden era of growth” in 2025. This week, investors will be watching if Apple shares can hit $264.62, the price need to reach a $4 trillion market cap.

The company first unveiled its AI-software marketed as Apple Intelligence back in June, but the rollout has been slow, with investors watching if a major upgrade cycle to access the features drives 2025 sales.

Apple shares were down 1.2% at $252.50 in midday trading Monday. Since the start of the year, Apple shares have gained around 31%, handily outpacing the S&P 500’s 24% increase over the same period.

Below, we take a closer look at Apple’s chart and apply technical analysis to identify several important price levels that investors may be watching.

Evening Star Pattern Emerges

Apple shares have trended higher since breaking out above a broad ascending triangle formation earlier this month. However, a bearish evening star pattern has formed on the iPhone maker’s chart over the past three trading sessions, indicating a potential reversal.

Moreover, as the stock climbed to a record high last week, the relative strength index (RSI) made a comparatively shallower high to create a bearish divergence, a technical signal pointing to weakening price momentum.

It’s also worth noting volume spikes in the stock on June 21, Sept. 20, and Dec. 20, with these dates coinciding with triple witching days, suggesting portfolio rebalancing by larger market participants, such as institutional investors and hedge funds.

Let’s identify key support levels to watch if the stock undergoes a reversal, but also forecast a bullish price target to monitor if the shares continue their longer-term uptrend.

Key Support Levels to Watch

The first level to eye sits around $237. This location on the chart could attract buying interest near the 50-day moving average and the ascending triangle’s top trendline, an area that may flip from prior resistance into future support.

Story Continues

language: en

sentiment: neutral

confidence: 0.9999668598175049

