link: https://finance.yahoo.com/news/why-apple-has-little-to-do-with-these-2-rocking-telecom-stocks-133019524.html

source: finance.yahoo.com

title: Why Apple has little to do with these 2 rocking telecom stocks

summary: 

publishDate: 2024-12-08T13:30:19.000Z

content: This is The Takeaway from today's Morning Brief, which you can sign up to receive in your inbox every morning along with:

The chart of the day

What we're watching

What we're reading

Economic data releases and earnings

You cannot pin all the credit on Apple (AAPL) for the surging stock prices this year for AT&T (T) and T-Mobile (TMUS).

I would actually argue Apple deserves none of the credit. Sorry, not sorry, Tim Cook!

Who deserves the credit? The top brass at each company that have been focused on running more beastly telecom operations. I am talking about a maniacal focus on profit margins, free cash flow generation, and expansion of potentially lucrative opportunities. And in turn, there has been zero focus on doing dumb things with shareholder money like expanding into the media business.

First up in this analytical drill-down is Dallas, Texas-based AT&T, led by company veteran John Stankey.

At an investor day this week, Stankey used his trademark deep voice (see video above) to outline more than $40 billion to be returned to shareholders over the next three years via stock buybacks and dividends. What really caught my attention was the guidance for double-digit percentage earnings growth in 2027.

AT&T and double-digit earnings growth normally aren't heard in the same sentence.

Execs are betting that investments in 5G infrastructure and fiber will yield a quicker pace of sales and earnings growth than seen in 2024.

For Stankey, the year-end investor day capped his continued efforts to pivot back to simply being a telecom giant.

In April 2022, AT&T closed its deal to spin off its WarnerMedia division, which it had purchased for a colossal $85 billion just three years earlier. The move combined WarnerMedia's HBO and CNN with Discovery's HGTV, Animal Planet, Food Network, and TLC.

The deal has been a full-on disaster for CEO David Zaslav who leads the now Warner Bros. Discovery (WBD).

Since the spin-off, AT&T has zeroed in on reducing debt, partly from the WarnerMedia acquisition. In September, AT&T sold its majority stake in TV provider DirecTV to private equity firm TPG for $7.6 billion.

AT&T's long-term debt now stands at $126 billion, down from more than $128 billion in 2022.

"I can say that we are back in growth mode," Stankey told me on Yahoo Finance's Market Domination. "I think we're early innings in our success story, so I don't think it's mission accomplished."

Stankey added he's bullish on the Trump administration providing tailwinds to his business, especially if tax cuts are extended.

language: en

sentiment: neutral

confidence: 0.8189651966094971

