Apple Inc. (AAPL) Q3 2024 Earnings Call
Transcript
Aug. 01, 2024 7:36 PM ET | Apple Inc. (AAPL) Stock, AAPL:CA Stock | AAPL, AAPL:CA | 3 Comments
Welcome to Seeking Alpha!
Articles on AAPL are available to you for free for the next 30 days.
To continue receiving professional-grade analyses on AAPL and gain access to similar
insights across the entire market, subscribe to Premium before your trial expires. Start today
for only $4.95 for your first month.
Q3: 2024-08-01 Earnings Summary
EPS of $1.40 beats by $0.06 | Revenue of $85.78B (4.87% Y/Y) beats by $1.38B
Transcripts
SA Transcripts
152.83K Followers
Join Premium
Play Call
10-Q
Apple Inc. (NASDAQ:AAPL) Q3 2024 Earnings Conference Call August 1, 2024 5:00
PM ET
Company Participants
Suhasini Chandramouli - Director of IR
Tim Cook - CEO
Luca Maestri - CFO
Conference Call Participants
Erik Woodring - Morgan Stanley
Ben Reitzes - Melius
Mike Ng - Goldman Sachs
Amit Daryanani - Evercore
Wamsi Mohan - Bank of America
Krish Sankar - TD Cowen
David Vogt - UBS
Atif Malik - Citi
Samik Chatterjee - JPMorgan
Richard Kramer - Arete Research
Suhasini Chandramouli
Good afternoon and welcome to the Apple Q3 Fiscal Year 2024 Earnings Conference
Call. My name is Suhasini Chandramouli, Director of Investor Relations. Today's call
is being recorded.
Speaking first today is Apple’s CEO, Tim Cook, and he'll be followed by CFO, Luca
Maestri. After that, we'll open the call to questions from analysts. Please note that
some of the information you'll hear during our discussion today will consist of
forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, those regarding revenue,
gross margin, operating expenses, other income and expense, taxes, capital
allocation, and future business outlook including the potential impact of
macroeconomic conditions on the company's business and results of operations.
These statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results or
trends to differ materially from our forecast. For more information, please refer to the
risk factors discussed in Apple's most recently filed Annual Report on Form 10-K and
the Form 8-K filed with the SEC today along with the associated press release. Apple
assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements which speak only
as of the date they are made.
I'd now like to turn the call over to Tim for introductory remarks.
Tim Cook
Thank you Suhasini. Good afternoon everyone and thanks for joining the call. Today,
Apple is reporting a new June quarter revenue record of $85.8 billion, up 5% from a
year ago and better than we had expected. EPS grew double digits to $1.40 and
achieved a record for the June quarter. We also set quarterly revenue records in
more than two dozen countries and regions, including Canada, Mexico, France,
Germany, the UK, India, Indonesia, the Philippines, and Thailand. And we set an all-
time revenue record in services which grew 14%.
At our Worldwide Developers Conference, we were thrilled to unveil game-changing
updates across our platforms, including Apple Intelligence. Apple Intelligence builds
on years of innovation and investment in AI and Machine Learning. It will transform
how users interact with technology, from writing tools to help you express yourself, to
image playground, which gives you the ability to create fun images and communicate
in new ways, to powerful tools for summarizing and prioritizing notifications.
Siri also becomes more natural, more useful, and more personal than ever. Apple
Intelligence is built on a foundation of privacy, both through on-device processing
that does not collect users' data and through private cloud compute, a
groundbreaking new approach to using the cloud, while protecting users' information
powered by Apple silicon. We are also integrating
ChatGPT into experiences within iPhone, Mac, and iPad, enabling users to draw on
a broad base of world knowledge.
We are very excited about Apple Intelligence and we remain incredibly optimistic
about the extraordinary possibilities of AI and its ability to enrich customers' lives. We
will continue to make significant investments in this technology and dedicate
ourselves to the innovation that will unlock its full potential.
Recently, we've also been excited to bring Apple Vision Pro to more countries, giving
customers the chance to discover the remarkable capabilities of this magical device.
Vision Pro users are customizing their own workspaces, watching movies on 100-
foot screens, and exploring entire worlds with just a pinch of their fingertips.
With more than 2,500 native spatial apps and 1.5 million compatible apps for Vision
OS, the developer community continues to pioneer stunning spatial experiences that
are only possible with Vision Pro. Last month, we announced that we're bringing
some amazing new immersive content to Vision Pro, including new series, concerts,
films, and more. And we've seen great interest for Vision Pro in the enterprise, where
it can empower companies large and small to pursue their best ideas like never
before.
With each innovation, we're unlocking new ways of working, new ways of learning,
and new ways of tapping into the unlimited promise of human potential. We are
doing that across every product and every service.
Now let me share more detail in our June quarter results, beginning with iPhone.
iPhone revenue was $39.3 billion, down 1% year-over-year. On a constant currency
basis, we grew compared to last year. Customers continue to praise the iPhone 15
lineup for its incredible battery life, exceptional cameras, and unmatched power and
performance.
And we are excited to bring incredible new features to the iPhone with iOS 18,
making it more personal, capable, and intelligent than ever before. This update
includes the biggest redesign of the Photos app, new customization options for the
home screen, messages over satellite, and the introduction of Apple Intelligence.
Apple Intelligence utilizes the power of our most advanced iPhones, the iPhone 15
Pro and Pro Max, offering a transformative set of capabilities.
Mac revenue was $7 billion, up 2% from a year ago. Customers are loving the latest
M3-powered 13 and 15 inch MacBook Air. With back-to-school season upon us,
MacBook Air is the perfect companion for students on campus and small business
owners, developers, and creatives of all kinds depend on Mac to do more than they
ever could before. Powered by Apple silicon with its neural engine and privacy built in
at the chip level, Macs are simply the best personal computers for AI.
And every Mac we've shipped with Apple silicon since 2020, is capable of taking
advantage of Apple Intelligence with Mac OS Sequoia. We also know the importance
of security for our users and enterprises so we continue to advance protections
across our products.
Turning to iPad, revenue was $7.2 billion, 24% higher year-over-year. During the
quarter, we had an incredible launch where we unveiled the all-new 11 and 13 inch
iPad Air, the perfect device for education, entertainment, and so much more.
And With the new iPad Pro, we pushed the boundaries of power-efficient
performance with the remarkable M4 chip, the engine behind this incredibly thin
device. By leveraging the latest in Apple silicon, Video Editors and Musicians can
take advantage of the cutting edge AI features in Final Cut Pro and Logic Pro. And
we're very excited that iPad Pro and iPad Air models powered by the M series of
Apple silicon will be able to utilize the powerful capabilities of Apple Intelligence.
In wearables, home, and accessories, revenue was $8.1 billion, down 2% from a
year ago. Apple Watch is empowering users to live a healthier day with a range of
tools to take charge of their wellness journeys. At the core of Apple Watch, are
powerful AI features that are helping users get help when they need it most, from
irregular heart rhythm notifications to walking steadiness to crash detection and fall
detection. I've heard time and again how meaningful these features are for users and
their loved ones, and their stories motivate us to keep pushing forward on this vital
work.
As I mentioned earlier, in services, we set an all-time revenue record of $24.2 billion
with paid subscriptions climbing to an all-time high. We achieve revenue records in
the majority of the services categories with all-time revenue records in advertising,
cloud, and payment services.
Apple TV+ productions are delighting audiences on screens large and small. We're
sharing powerful works of imagination with series and movies like Presumed
Innocent, the Upcoming Disclaimer, and The Instigators starring Matt Damon. And
we can't wait for returning fan favorites with new seasons of The Morning Show,
Slow Horses, and Severance.
Apple TV+ productions also continue to earn accolades with nearly 2,300
nominations and 500 wins to-date. That includes 72 Emmy Award nominations
across 16 programs our best ever showing for the upcoming awards event. During
the quarter, we also expanded Tap to Pay on iPhone to more markets including
Japan, Canada, Italy, and Germany, enabling more businesses to use the power of
iPhone to accept contactless payments. And we announced new updates to our
services coming this fall, including US national park hikes and custom walk routes
and Apple Maps, the ability to pay with rewards using Apple Pay, collaborative
listening with Apple Music, and a redesigned Apple Fitness+ experience to help
users make the most of our library of workouts and meditations.
Turning to retail, we continue to expand in emerging markets with our first ever
location in Malaysia. Customers from all over the country came together with our
team members to celebrate this special moment. Elsewhere in the world, our teams
have been sharing the magic of Apple Vision Pro and demos that delight, inspire,
and deeply move customers exploring the wonders of spatial computing for the first
time. At the heart of all of our innovations are the values that guide everything we do.
We believe fundamentally that the best technology is technology that works for
everyone. And in honor of Global Accessibility Awareness Day, we introduced all new
capabilities to give users more ways to take advantage of all our products can do.
These include eye tracking for users to control iPhone or iPad visually, music haptics
to give those who are deaf or hard of hearing a tangible way to experience music,
and vocal shortcuts that tie task to a user's voice. And we are committed as ever to
shipping products that offer the highest standards of privacy for our users.
With everything we do, whether it's offering a browser like Safari that prevents third-
parties from tracking you across the internet or providing new features like the ability
to lock and hide apps, we are determined to keep our users in control of their own
data. And we are just as dedicated to ensuring the security of our users' data. That's
why we work to minimize the amount of data we collect and work to maximize how
much is processed directly on people's devices, a foundational principle that is at the
core of all we build, including Apple Intelligence.
And we continue to make significant progress on the environment. We are proud to
say that all of our data centers, including those that will run private cloud compute,
operate on 100% renewable energy. At Apple, we're constantly accelerating our pace
of innovation. We are a company in relentless pursuit of big ideas. Time and again,
we've seen how a spark of creativity can reach breakthrough velocity, reach across
previously unexplored dimensions, and ultimately take flight in ways that can change
the world. It's why we're going to keep investing in the meaningful innovation that
enriches the lives of all of our customers. We have a busy time ahead of us, and I
couldn't be more excited for all the amazing things yet to come.
With that, I'll turn it over to Luca.
Luca Maestri
Thank you, Tim, and good afternoon, everyone. We are very pleased to report a new
June quarter revenue record of $85.8 billion, up 5% year-over-year, despite 230
basis points of negative foreign exchange impact. We achieved growth in the vast
majority of our markets, with June quarter revenue records in the Americas, Europe,
and rest of Asia Pacific. Products revenue was $61.6 billion, up 2% year-over-year,
driven by the launch of the new iPad Pro and iPad Air.
Our installed base of active devices reach an all-time high across all products and
geographic segments, thanks to our unmatched levels of customer satisfaction and
loyalty and a large number of customers who are new to our products. Services
revenue reached an all-time record of $24.2 billion, up 14% year-over-year, with an
all-time record in developed markets and a June quarter record in emerging markets.
Company gross margin was 46.3% near the high end of our guidance range and
down 30 basis points sequentially driven by a different mix within products which was
partially offset by a favorable mix shift towards services and cost savings. Products
gross margin was 35.3%, down 130 basis points sequentially, primarily driven by mix,
partially offset by favorable costs. Services gross margin was 74% down 60 basis
points from last quarter.
Operating expenses of $14.3 billion were at the low end of the guidance range we
provided and up 7% year-over-year. Net income was $21.4 billion, diluted EPS of
$1.40 was up 11% year-over-year and set a June quarter record. And operating cash
flow was very strong at $28.9 billion, also a June quarter record.
Let me get into more detail for each of our revenue categories. iPhone revenue was
$39.3 billion, down 1% year-over-year, but grew on a constant currency basis. We
set June quarter records across several countries, including the UK, Spain, Poland,
Mexico, Indonesia, and the Philippines. And the iPhone Active installed base grew to
a new all-time high in total and in every geographic segment.
During the June quarter, many iPhone models were among the top selling
smartphones around the world. In fact, according to a survey from Kantar, iPhone
was the top selling model in the US, urban China, the UK, Germany, Australia, and
Japan. Customer satisfaction on the iPhone 15 family continues to be extremely
high, with 451 Research measuring it at 98% in the US in their latest reports.
Mac generated $7 billion in revenue, up 2% year-over-year, driven by the MacBook
Air powered by the M3 chip. We saw particularly strong performance in our emerging
markets, with June quarter records for Mac in Latin America, India, and South Asia.
The Mac installed base reached an all-time high with half of MacBook Air customers
in the quarter being new to Mac. And customer satisfaction for Mac was recently
reported at 96% in the US. iPad revenue was $7.2 billion, up 24% year-over-year,
driven by the launch of the new iPad Pro and iPad Air. Customers are loving the
latest iPad lineup for its new design and display, unparalleled performance, AI
capabilities and much more.
The iPad install base has continued to grow and is an all-time high, as half of the
customers who purchased iPads during the quarter were new to the product. Also,
customer satisfaction was recently measured at 97% in the US. Wearables, home
and accessories revenue was $8.1 billion, down 2% year-over-year, a sequential
acceleration from the March quarter.
Watch and AirPods continue to face a difficult compare against prior year launches of
the AirPods Pro second generation, the Watch SE and the first Watch Ultra. Apple
Watch continues to attract new customers, with almost two-thirds of customers
purchasing an Apple Watch during the quarter being new to the product, sending the
Apple Watch install base to a new all-time high. And the latest reports from 451
Research indicate a customer satisfaction of 97% for watch in the US.
In services, total revenue reached an all-time record of $24.2 billion, growing 14%
year-over-year. We continue to have great momentum in services, as the growth of
our installed base of active devices, sets a strong foundation for the future expansion
of our ecosystem. And we see increased customer engagement with our services
offerings. Both transacting accounts and paid accounts reach a new all-time high
with paid accounts growing double digits year-over-year. Also, paid subscriptions
showed strong double digit growth. We have well over 1 billion paid subscriptions
across the services on our platform, more than double the number that we had only
four years ago.
And we are constantly focused on improving the breadth and quality of our services.
From critically acclaimed new content on Apple TV+ to new games on Apple Arcade
and the many latest features we previewed during WWDC for iCloud, Apple Pay,
Apple Cash, Apple Music, and more. Turning to enterprise, we continue to see
businesses, leveraging our entire suite of products to drive productivity and creativity
for their teams and customers.
USAA, a leading insurance and financial services company, recently expanded
beyond their existing iPhone and iPad deployments to provide their employees with
the latest MacBook Air. And American Express has continued to add to their fleet of
over 10,000 Macs to enhance their employees' productivity, security, and
collaboration. We're also excited to see leading organizations such as Boston
Children's Hospital and Lufthansa using Apple Vision Pro to build innovative spatial
computing experiences to transform the training of their workforces.
Let me now turn to our cash position and capital return program. We ended the
quarter with $153 billion in cash and marketable securities. We repaid $4.3 billion in
maturing debt and increased commercial paper by $1 billion, leaving us with total
debt of $101 billion. As a result, net cash was $52 billion at the end of the quarter.
During the quarter, we returned over $32 billion to shareholders, including $3.9 billion
in dividends and equivalents and $26 billion through open market repurchases of 139
million Apple shares.
As we move ahead into the September quarter, I'd like to review our outlook, which
includes the types of forward-looking information that Suhasini referred to at the
beginning of the call. The color we are providing today assumes that the
macroeconomic outlook doesn't worsen from what we are projecting today for the
current quarter. We expect foreign exchange to continue to be a headwind and to
have a negative impact on revenue of about 1.5 percentage points on a year-over-
year basis.
We expect our September quarter total company revenue to grow year-over-year at
a rate similar to the June quarter. We expect services revenue to grow double digits
at a rate similar to what we reported in the first three quarters of this fiscal year. We
expect gross margin to be between 45.5% and 46.5%. We expect OpEx to be
between $14.2 billion and $14.4 billion.
We expect OI&E to be around negative $50 million, excluding any potential impact
from the mark to market of minority investments, and our tax rate to be around
16.5%. Finally, today our Board of Directors has declared a cash dividend of $0.25
per share of common stock payable on August 15, 2024, to shareholders of record
as of August 12, 2024.
With that, let's open the call to questions.
Suhasini Chandramouli
Thank you Luca. We ask that you limit yourself to two questions. Operator, may we
have the first question, please?
Question-and-Answer Session
Operator
Certainly. We will go ahead and take our first question from Erik Woodring with
Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.
Erik Woodring
Great. Thank you very much for taking my question. Maybe Tim, if we start with you,
you know, I thought some of the color you provided before the call about iPhone 15
performing better than the iPhone 14 was interesting. So just with that context, can
you maybe help us understand where you see iPhone replacement cycles today,
where you think the size of the base of iPhones that are aged and likely to upgrade
are, and what that translates to in potential pent-up demand, as we enter a new
iPhone cycle. And I have a follow-up, thank you.
Tim Cook
Yes, hi Eric. The installed base hit an all-time high during the quarter and so we were
very happy about that. iPhone in general grew in constant currency. And the 15, as
you point out, if you look at the same number of weeks of the 15 from launch and
compare that to the 14, the 15 is doing better than the 14. And so that's kind of a
state of where we currently are. In terms of upgrade rates, it's very difficult mid-cycle
to call upgrade rates. I would just say that with Apple Intelligence, we are very
excited about the level of value that we're going to provide to users. And we believe
that -- that presents another reason for a compelling upgrade.
Erik Woodring
Okay, that's very helpful. Thanks, Tim. And then second, can you maybe dig into the
China dynamics a bit? Sales down 6% this quarter, 3% in constant currency, an
improvement from last quarter on a tougher compare that came on the back of some
iPhone discounting. So can you maybe just share color on the China market as a
whole how much you believe promotions helped in the quarter, how sustainable this
improvement is, and if this performance really changes any of your approach to the
China market as we look forward. Thanks so much.
Tim Cook
Yeah, Erik, as you point out, we decreased by 6.5% year-over-year for the whole of
Greater China. And if you look at it on a constant currency basis, we declined by less
than 3%. So over 50% of the decline year-over-year is currency related. That is an
improvement from the first half of the fiscal year, and so we're happy to see the
acceleration.
If you look at iPhone in particular for Greater China, the installed base set a record.
We also in Mainland China set a June quarter record for upgraders and so that's a
very strong signal and in fact from Kantar -- the survey from Kantar this quarter
showed that iPhones were the top three models in urban China. Also, if you look at --
one of the things we look at is the 15 family compared to the 14 family for the same
number of weeks from launch. So this goes all the way back to the September of
2023. If you look at that, the 15 is outperforming the 14. And so those are some of
the color I would provide.
In addition, one of the things that we're very focused on is the level of new customers
buying our products. And so if you look at this on the Mac and iPad, in Mainland
China, the majority of customers buying or buying for the first time, buying that
product for the first time and the watch, the vast, vast majority of people are buying a
product for the first time. And during the quarter, I should say also that iPad returned
to growth in Greater China, as it did around the world.
And so we continue to be confident in the long-term opportunity in China. I don't
know how every chapter of the book reads, but we're very confident in the long-term.
Erik Woodring
Great. Thanks so much.
Tim Cook
Yeah.
Suhasini Chandramouli
Thank you, Erik. Operator, may we have the next question, please?
Operator
Our next question is from Ben Reitzes with Melius. Please go ahead.
Ben Reitzes
Hey, thanks a lot. Appreciate it. Hey, Tim, you know, now that you've launched or
announced Apple intelligence, do you have any ideas on how it may impact services.
Would it – do you feel like it'll accelerate your Services business augmented? And
maybe folks will need to buy more storage and some other things. How are you
thinking about it as a catalyst for Services into next year? And I have a follow-up.
Thanks.
Tim Cook
We started the rollout of Apple Intelligence this week with developers, so some of the
features are out there as of Monday. And we couldn't be more excited about getting
them out there. Obviously, this will enable developers to take their apps to the next
level. And so we are taking the first step in getting the beta out there, and we can't
wait to see what kind of amazing things they do with it.
Ben Reitzes
Okay. Thanks. And then Luca, with regard to gross margin, it's been -- there's been
some component price inflation and mix. Do you mind just giving us a little more
color on how you are managing that sequentially and how you feel about the current
component environment as an impact on margins? Thanks.
Luca Maestri
Sure, Ben. I think I'll give you a bit of the walk for the June quarter and then get into
the outlook that we provided for the September quarter. At the total company level,
we've reported 46.3%. It is down 30 basis points sequentially, and it was really driven
by a different mix. Within products, of course, we launched very important products
like the iPad during the course of the quarter. But we had an offset from a shift in mix
towards Services, and we got some good cost savings. And so when you look at it on
a year-over-year basis, we are up significantly on the margin front. And keep in mind
that foreign exchange continues to be a bit of a headwind for us.
As we go into the September quarter, we are guiding 45.5% to 46.5%, which is kind
of within the guidance that we provided last quarter. Again similar dynamics, we
expect a slightly different mix. We expect foreign exchange to have a minimal impact
sequentially, although a more significant impact on a year-over-year basis.
On the commodity side, I think that is what you are referring to, yes we have seen
some increases on the memory front, but the rest of the commodities, we see a
continuous decline. So in general, we feel -- we're well positioned. And as you know
well, these are very high levels of gross margin for us and we are pleased where we
are.
Ben Reitzes
Okay. Thanks a lot.
Suhasini Chandramouli
Thank you Ben. Operator may we have the next question please.
Operator
Our next question is from Mike Ng with Goldman Sachs. Please go ahead.
Mike Ng
Hi, good afternoon. I just have two questions. First, I was wondering if you could talk
about whether or not you've seen a shift in demand for iPhone 15 Pro, Pro Max
models since WWDC that could potentially foreshadow consumer demand for Apple
Intelligence enabled phones?
Tim Cook
We just announced the sort of the requirements at the system and the silicon level in
June. And so we had very limited time during the quarter. So it's really too early to
tell.
Mike Ng
That's fair. And then with the focus on upgrader potential over the next several years,
I was just wondering if you could talk about what you are expecting from the US
promotional environment from your channel partners, whether that's US wireless
carriers, given the importance of device sales for those partners during an upgrade
cycle. Or any retail support on what could be a very strong smartphone upgrade
period? Thank you.
Tim Cook
We are very excited about Apple Intelligence and what it brings, and it is another
compelling reason for an upgrade. I'd leave the promotional question for the sort of
the carriers themselves to answer. But I believe it will be a very key time for -- and a
compelling upgrade cycle.
Mike Ng
Great. Thank you Tim.
Suhasini Chandramouli
Thanks Mike. Operator, can we have the next question please.
Operator
Our next question is from Amit Daryanani with Evercore. Please go ahead.
Amit Daryanani
Good afternoon everyone. And I have two as well. I guess, Tim, maybe back to the
Apple Intelligence dynamic. There's clearly a lot of excitement from consumers
around what Apple Intelligence could mean for them. Can you just touch on your --
do you think the intent is to launch all the Apple Intelligence features at the same
time to consumers, or do you think they end up getting staggered a bit? And if they
are staggered, do you think it impacts how consumers come out and buy the next-
generation iPhone?
Tim Cook
The rollout, as we mentioned in June, sort of -- we've actually started with developers
this week. We started with some features of Apple Intelligence, not the complete
suite. There are other features like languages beyond US English that will happen
over the course of the year, and there are other features that will happen over the
course of the year. And ChatGPT is integrated by the end of the calendar year. And
so yes, so it’s a staggered launch.
Amit Daryanani
Got it. And then I guess your Services growth rates have been extremely impressive
for several quarters and it seems like it is accelerated recently. Can you just touch --
talk about when you look at this double-digit growth, how much of that do you think is
coming from the installed base growth versus better ARPU or better monetization of
the installed base? And how do you kind of see that mix changing as you go
forward?
Luca Maestri
Yes, Amit, it is Luca. It's a combination of a number of factors. The installed base
growth is very important of course, because we have a larger pool of customers that
uses the ecosystem and uses our Services. We are seeing and we've seen this
consistently for many, many quarters now. We see continued growth in the level of
engagement that our customers have with our ecosystem.
We have more transacting accounts every quarter, so more people using the
ecosystem both the free elements of the ecosystem and the paid elements. We see
paid accounts growing double digits, and we've seen that for many, many quarters.
Now we look at our paid subscriptions on our platform, and they are growing strong
double digits as well. So obviously, the growing level of engagement helps us both
from an ARPU standpoint and just a volume standpoint.
Obviously, as you've seen over the last several years, we launched new services
over time, and we've launched many new services, fairly recently. Obviously, our
payments business is relatively new, Apple TV+, Apple Arcade, Fitness+, so many
other services we've added. And so we are providing more and more opportunities
for our customers to interact with the ecosystem. And we believe we are doing also a
very good job at improving the quality of these services and improving the amount of
content that we make available. We continue to make significant investments on
TV+, on Apple Arcade. We are launching new shows, new games all the time.
And I think you will continue to see that as we go forward. We are very, very happy
with the 14% growth that we had this quarter because, particularly if you look at the
performance that we had in Services a year ago, the compares for us tend to get a
bit more challenging in the second half of our fiscal year. But in spite of that, we
delivered a level of growth that was better than what we were expecting at the
beginning of the quarter.
Suhasini Chandramouli
Thanks Amit. Operator we will take the next question please.
Operator
Our next question is from Wamsi Mohan with Bank of America. Please go ahead.
Wamsi Mohan
Yes. Thank you so much. Tim, you announced Apple Intelligence, but you also
announced partnerships with OpenAI and presumably more coming down the road.
How should investors think about the monetization models around these
partnerships where the CapEx investments are clearly being made by these potential
partners. But you're obviously -- they're leveraging your distribution to your very
attractive installed base. So in the long-term, do you see the Apple Intelligence part --
the Services growth from Apple Intelligence being the larger contributor over time?
Or do you see these partnerships becoming a larger contributor over time? And I
have a follow-up.
Tim Cook
I think the way that I look at it is that Apple Intelligence is the on-device processing
and the Private Cloud Compute. And a lot of that will be things with a personal
context. And then for world knowledge, we are integrating with ChatGPT initially, and
that will be focused on world knowledge as I said. And so the monetization model, I
don't want to get into the terms of the commercial agreements because they are
confidential between the parties. But I see both aspects as being very important.
People want both.
Wamsi Mohan
Okay. Thanks. As a follow-up maybe for Luca. Just stepping back to the gross
margin discussion again. If I look at calendar 2023, you had on average 150 basis
points increase in product gross margins on a year-on-year basis. In 2024 so far, it
had been more flat year-on-year. When we think about that, is the incremental
headwind, I mean there was FX headwinds throughout the last several years. So ex-
FX, are there other incremental headwinds that are either temporary or structural in
nature that are perhaps limiting further upside to what are obviously very strong
gross margins? Thank you.
Luca Maestri
Yes. Of course, as you said, the foreign exchange continues to be -- this is
incremental on a year-over-year basis. And it is one of those things that is outside of
our control. We try to hedge our exposures. But it is what it is. We know that when
the dollar is strong, our gross margins are affected. The other element that I think it's
always important to keep in mind is that within the Products business, our products
have different margin profiles. And depending on the relative success in the
marketplace, our products' gross margin tends to move.
And so the mix of our products has an impact on gross margins, right? And so we
need to pay attention to that. Of course, we just launched an iPad and that is one of
the factors. But we want all our products to be very successful in the marketplace.
And that's why we always look at gross margin dollars as the first order of priority,
and gross margin percentage tends to follow from that. The other factor that
obviously has an impact, a significant impact is the state of the commodity markets,
and they tend to go in cycles. And so we will see how that plays out over time. But in
general, we feel good about the level of gross margins that we have for our products
business, and we think we are in a good position there.
Suhasini Chandramouli
Thanks Wamsi. Operator, can we have the next question please.
Operator
Our next question is from Krish Sankar with TD Cowen. Please go ahead.
Krish Sankar
Hi, thanks for taking my question. And congrats on the strong results. The first one
for Luca or Tim. We keep hearing about these increasing silicon content for AI edge
devices. And also, I think, Luca you spoke about increasing commodity costs. So I'm
curious how to think about margins for these new AI devices. And Tim, do any of
these Apple Intelligence features need more hardware updates than what we have
today? And then I have a quick follow-up.
Tim Cook
Maybe I'll take the second one first and then pass it over to Luca. In terms of the
requirements to run Apple Intelligence, there are system requirements and there are
silicon requirements. And so from an iPhone point of view, the iPhone 15 Pro and
Pro Max will run Apple Intelligence and the successor products obviously.
If you look at the Mac, it starts with the M series of silicon that started in 2020. And
the iPad is the same, and so it starts with the M series of silicon. And so there are
system requirements and silicon requirements that go with each of those.
Luca Maestri
And from a gross margin standpoint, as you know, we don't provide any color past
the current quarter, and we just provided guidance for the quarter 45.5% to 46.5%. It
is essentially broadly in line with what we reported for the June quarter. So we'll take
it quarter by quarter and we will report as the time goes by.
Krish Sankar
Got it. Very helpful. And then a quick follow-up for Tim. Thanks for the color on
China. We also see many other consumer discretionary and luxury brands talk about
a weak China. And I think Tim, you said half the details was FX related. I'm curious,
the other half of the weakness, was that more China macro related or do you think it
is kind of like specific to Apple with domestic competitors? Any other color you could
give would be very helpful. Thank you very much.
Tim Cook
Well, certainly, the competitive environment there is the most competitive in the
world. I've said that before and that remains to be the case. The macroeconomic
factors have been in the press too, and I'm not an expert on those. I can only tell you
what we're seeing. And we were pleased that the business showed improvement
from the first half of the year.
Krish Sankar
Thanks Tim.
Suhasini Chandramouli
Thank you Krish. Operator, can we have the next question please.
Operator
Our next question is from David Vogt with UBS. Please go ahead.
David Vogt
Great. Two, if I may also. Tim, first one for you. I know it is early days, and you talked
about the developers just getting their hands on Apple Intelligence. But when you
think about the categories that are currently in the App Store and kind of what you
think app developers could do with this new technology, what's your instinct say in
terms of -- are these going to be iterative applications to currently available
applications? Is there any sort of category that you think lends itself more naturally to
Apple Intelligence? Is it games? Is it more creative? I'm just trying to get a sense of
how you're thinking about it. And then I have a follow-up for Luca. Thanks.
Tim Cook
If you look at how we've deployed Apple Intelligence or are deploying Apple
Intelligence, we've really thought about it at pretty much all of the apps that you use
every day. And so we've thought about it from Notes to Mail to Messages and all the
rest. And so there is been a deep level of thinking about how it affects those apps.
And that's going to surface Apple Intelligence in a way that is natural to the user, in a
way that will I think, get them very excited about it and get usage.
Similarly, I think the developers will do that on a broad basis with their apps as well.
And so I think, it is profound and we'll see what the developers do. But we're very
excited to get the initial seed out there this week and see what they do. I think it will
be amazing, yes.
David Vogt
Yes. No, that's helpful. I appreciate it. And Luca, just maybe -- I know you didn't give
a full rundown of product categories in your prepared remarks. But if I kind of take
your comments at face value, I guess what I'm trying to think about is for the next
quarter, it sounds like with Services being relatively strong and FX easing a little bit.
You are effectively saying that product revenue in the September quarter is going to
basically be flat with the September quarter last year ahead of a product launch. And
so I'm just trying to get a sense for, what are the puts and takes in that sort of outlook
particularly as you have Apple Intelligence hopefully stoking the fire for demand
going forward? Thanks.
Luca Maestri
Well, we have provided -- let me repeat what we provided. We think that we are
going to be growing total company revenue at a rate that is similar to what we
reported, so the plus 5%, right? In spite of the fact that we are going to have some
foreign exchange headwinds, and we said about 150 basis points in the December
quarter. And we said that we will grow Services double digits at a rate that is similar
to what we've reported for the first three quarters of the fiscal year.
We are not going into the other categories. I think there is a lot of good math that you
can do from what we've given you here. Keep in mind on the Mac that we will have a
challenging compare from a year ago, given the fact that we launched and we had
the full quarter impact of the launch of the MacBook Air 15-inch a year ago. And also
on the iPad, we reported 24% growth in the June quarter. Clearly we had the benefit
from the launch in the June quarter of the new products, the iPad Air and the iPad
Pro. So important to keep that in mind on a sequential basis.
David Vogt
Great. Thank you very much.
Suhasini Chandramouli
Thank you David. Operator may we have the next question please.
Operator
Our next question is from Atif Malik with Citi. Please go ahead.
Atif Malik
Hi, thank you for taking my question. The first one is for Tim. I know it's early days.
The feedback on Apple Intelligence software features like notification summary and
reduced interruption focus from the developers who have tried the iOS 18.1 beta
version this week is very positive. My question is in response to an earlier question,
you talked about a staggered launch on some of these software features. So are you
expecting most of the features that you announced at WWDC to be part of iOS 18?
Or we should be thinking that some of these features could potentially be part of iOS
19 next year?
Tim Cook
Our objective that we said in June is to roll out US English starting in the fall and that
is to users, and then proceed with more functionality, more features, if you will, and
more languages and regions coverage as we proceed across the next year. And so
we sort of gave a time frame that -- and we're tracking to that.
Atif Malik
Understand. And the next one for Luca. Luca the Services growth momentum seems
very strong. Are you seeing any impact from changes made to comply with the DMA
rules?
Luca Maestri
Well, as you know we have introduced some changes to the way we run the App
Store in Europe already in March. And we are seeing a good level of adoption from
developers on those changes. We are on an ongoing basis, discussing with the
European Commission how to ensure full compliance with the DMA. It is obviously
early stage, but in general, our results for the Services business and for the App
Store have been pretty good until now. Again to just provide you a frame of
reference, the percentage of revenue that we generate from the European Union on
the App Store is about 7% of the total.
Atif Malik
Very helpful. Thank you.
Suhasini Chandramouli
Thank you Atif. Operator may we have the next question please.
Operator
Our next question is from Samik Chatterjee with JPMorgan. Please go ahead.
Samik Chatterjee
Yes. Hi. Thanks for taking my question. I guess, Tim, if I can just ask you about Apple
Intelligence as well. There is a regulatory aspect as well in certain geographies. You
mentioned the staggered launch that you are aiming for and the timelines you're
thinking. How are you thinking about the complexity of the regulatory process, in
particular like EU and maybe China? And does -- in terms of your timelines of the
rollout, are you sort of embedding in the regulatory aspect here? And how should we
think about timing then including that? And I have a follow-up. Thank you.
Tim Cook
We are engaged as you would guess, with both regulatory bodies that you
mentioned. And our objective is to move as fast as we can, obviously because our
objective is always to get features out there for everyone. We have to understand the
regulatory requirements before we can commit to doing that and commit a schedule
to doing that. But we're very constructively engaged with both.
Samik Chatterjee
Okay, got it. And a quick one on the Wearables category, Luca. I know you
mentioned the acceleration there on a sequential basis. Maybe you can just sort of
parse that out in terms of what -- which categories drove the acceleration because
that's been a category that has been lagging a bit in terms of revenue trends for the
past couple of quarters. So just curious what is starting to sort of drive it to accelerate
on a sequential basis? Thank you.
Tim Cook
Yes, I'll take that one. I think the important thing to remember when you look at the
Wearables, Home and Accessories categories is that we have a difficult launch
compare. And we've been running that for a few quarters and we still have that
because last year had the continued benefit from the AirPods Pro second generation,
the Watch SE and the very first Watch Ultra. And so it is important to keep that in
mind. If you sort of take a step back, however and look at the business across the
trailing 12 months, it is grown -- the Wearables, Home and Accessories business has
grown to almost $40 billion, which is double what it was five years ago.
Samik Chatterjee
Thank you.
Suhasini Chandramouli
Thank you Samik. Operator, may we have the last question please.
Operator
Our last question is from Richard Kramer with Arete Research. Please go ahead.
Richard Kramer
Thanks. Thanks very much. Tim, you referenced the investment in innovation, and
your R&D sales ratio reached what I think was a June quarter record even before
launching Apple Intelligence. Do you see the rollout of these features requiring
further increases in R&D or increases in OpEx or CapEx for cloud compute capacity?
And is it even possible to forecast the Services usage as they roll out, given that they
are so new for consumers? Thanks.
Tim Cook
Clearly, we have increased R&D over time. We have been investing in AI and ML for
years. And in addition to investing more, we've also redeployed certain skills onto AI
and ML. And so the growth in sort of embedded in our numbers that we've shared
here, it is increasing year-over-year.
On the CapEx part, it is important to remember that we employ a hybrid kind of
approach, where we do things internally and we have certain partners that we do
business with externally where the CapEx would appear in their respective
businesses. But yes, I mean you can expect that there is -- we will continue to invest
and increase it year-on-year.
Richard Kramer
Okay. And maybe a quick follow-up for Luca. When we look at the free cash flow
margins for the first nine months, they are up materially. And given this year's product
mix, can you describe to us what exactly in the Services mix or cost control is driving
what seems to be structurally higher free cash flow margins across the business?
Luca Maestri
Yes, I'm glad you noticed that. We are pretty pleased with that fact. And I think you
probably also noticed that we've increased our return of capital to shareholders this
quarter. This one was a record quarter for us. Well, it's a combination of a number of
things. Of course, an improvement in the top-line helps the margin expansion that
we've had over the last several years and several quarters obviously has helped.
And so that is driving better operating cash flow.
On the CapEx front as Tim said, we employ a hybrid model. Some of the investments
show up on our balance sheet and some other investments show up somewhere
else and we pay, as we go. But in general, we try to run the company efficiently. We
continue to think that capital efficiency is a good thing. And therefore, we are pleased
with the fact that our free cash flow is doing well this year.
Richard Kramer
Okay. Thanks.
Suhasini Chandramouli
Thank you, Richard. A replay of today's call will be available for two weeks on Apple
Podcasts, as a webcast on apple.com/investor, and via telephone. The number for
the telephone replay is (866)-583-1035. Please enter confirmation code 1969407
followed by the pound sign. These replays will be available by approximately 5 p.m.
Pacific Time today. Members of the press with additional questions can contact Josh
Rosenstock at (408)-862-1142. And financial analysts can contact me, Suhasini
Chandramouli with additional questions at (408)-974-3123. Thank you again for
joining us today.
Operator
Once again this does conclude today's conference. We do appreciate your
participation.
Read more current AAPL analysis and news
View all earnings call transcripts
